So now let's talk about Amazon FSx.
So Amazon FSx allows you
to launch third-party high-performance file systems
on AWS as a fully managed service.
So the idea is that you want, for example, for RDS,
you wanted to launch MySQL or PostgreSQL on AWS.
Well, for FSx, it is the same as RDS, but for file systems.
So for example, you can launch Lustre on FSx
or you can launch a Windows File Server on FSx
or you can launch NetApp ONTAP on FSx
or OpenZFS on FSx.
And there may be more
at the time of you seeing this lecture,
and I will update this lecture only if I find
that some significant file systems
are making their appearance at the exam, okay?
But you need to know the four you have in front of you.
So let's have a look at them one by one.
So first, let's have a look at Amazon FSx
for Windows File Server.
So it's a fully managed Windows File Server share drive.
And because it's Windows, it supports the SMB protocol,
as well as Windows NTFS.
Also, because it's Windows, it supports integration
with Microsoft Active Directory to get security
for your users.
It use also ACLs, access control list, and user quotas.
And there is a specificity, though, of Amazon FSx
for Windows File Server,
is that even though it seems like it's dedicated
for Windows, you can also mount them on Linux EC2 instances.
And it's something you have to remember.
And if you have an existing Windows File Server somewhere,
for example, on premises,
then you can use the Microsoft Distributed File System,
DFS feature, to group your file systems together
and therefore join your FSx for Windows File Server
to your on-premises Windows File Server.
Okay, now, in terms of performance,
this scales up to tens of gigabytes per second,
millions of IOPS, and hundreds of petabytes of data.
The storage option for FSx for Windows File Server are SSD
to get very low latency sensitive workloads,
for example, databases, media processing, data analytics.
Or if you wanted to have a broad spectrum of workloads,
you can use HDD is cheaper,
for example, home directory or CMS.
Now you can access your FSx for Windows File Server
from your on-premises infrastructure
with a private connection,
and you can also configure your FSx for Windows File Server
to be Multi-AZ for high availability.
Finally, all your data is backed-up daily to Amazon S3
for disaster recovery purposes.
Now let's talk about the second kind of Amazon FSx,
which is Amazon FSx for Lustre.
And Lustre is used to do a distributed file system
that is going to be used for large-scale computing.
So once I explained you the word Lustre,
it's going to make sense.
So Lustre is derived from Linux and cluster.
It is used for machine learning
and high-performance computing, or HPC.
And this is a keyword you need to look for
to know that you need FSx for Lustre.
So you can have applications such as video processing,
financial modeling, electronic design automation.
You have massive scale,
so you can scale up to hundreds of gigabytes
of data per second, millions of IOPS,
and sub-milliseconds latency.
And for storage, two options,
either you want an SSD for very low latency,
IOPS intensive workload,
as well as small and random file operations,
or HDD if you want throughput-intensive workload
for large and sequential file operations.
And SSD is going to be more expensive than HDD.
You have seamless integration with Amazon S3.
That means that you can read S3
as a file system through FSx,
and you can write the output of the computations from FSx
back to Amazon S3.
And that is something that the exam may ask you about.
Finally, Amazon FSx for Lustre can be used
from on-premises servers through VPN or direct connect.
For FSx, you also need to know
the file system deployment options.
And there's two you need to know.
There is scratch file system and persistent file system.
So scratch file system is going to be temporary storage,
and the data will not be replicated.
That means that you have a file,
and you will lose it if the underlying server fails.
But thanks to this optimization, we get really high bursts.
So we get six times the performance
of a persistent file system,
and you get, for example, 200 megabytes per second
per terabytes of throughput.
So it's actually really, really big.
So the use case of a scratch file system is going
to do short-term processing of data,
and you want to optimize your cost
by not having data being replicated.
So that means that you have FSx,
your compute instances are going to connect on AZ1 and AZ2,
and then the FSx for Lustre scratch file system
only has one copy of your data
as it is shown on this diagram right here.
Just one copy, okay?
Finally, you can also have optional S3 buckets underlying
for the data repository.
For persistent file system,
it's going to be for long-term storage.
The data is going to be replicated
within the same availability zone, okay,
so not across AZ but within the same AZ.
But that means that if you have a failure
of a underlying server,
then the files will be replaced
transparently within minutes.
So the use case for a persistent file system is,
as its name indicates, long-term processing
and storage of sensitive data.
So the idea is exactly the same
in terms of the architecture.
Remember, FSx only lives for Lustre
only within one single AZ.
And the FSx for Lustre file system
in persistent mode will have two copies of the data,
so you can see there is some replication right now
from one data volume to the next data volume.
Next, we have Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP.
So it's a managed NetApp ONTAP file system on AWS.
And this file system is compatible
with the NFS, SMB, and iSCSI protocol.
So the idea is that you would use the FSx
for NetApp ONTAP file system to move workloads
that are already running on ONTAP
or running on a NAS on your on-premises system into AWS.
So it has broad compatibility
with different operating systems.
So it work with Linux, Windows, and macOS,
as well as VMware Cloud on AWS,
WorkSpaces, AppStream, EC2, ECS, and EKS,
which are services you may have not seen yet
in this course, okay?
But the idea is that it has
very, very, very broad compatibility.
On top of it,
these storage will automatically shrink or grow.
So there's auto-scaling for this, which is cool.
Then you have replication, you have snapshots,
replication features available.
It's low cost, you can do data compression.
And also, you can do data de-duplication.
So you can find duplicates of files on NetApp ONTAP.
And finally, very helpful,
you can do point-in-time instantaneous cloning,
which is very helpful for testing new workloads
and in ones you want to test.
You wanna take your file system,
you clone it very quickly,
and then you have a staging file system, for example.
So these are some of the benefits you need to look out for
in the exam when it's hinted at you
that you should be using NetApp ONTAP.
Finally, we have Amazon FSx for OpenZFS.
So it's a managed OpenZFS file system on AWS,
which is compatible only with the NFS protocol
on multiple versions.
And the main use case is to move workloads
that are already running on ZFS internally to AWS.
It has also has broad compatibility
with Linux, Mac, Windows, and so on.
And this one is really good performance.
You can scale up to 1 million IOPS
with less than 0.5 millisecond latency,
support snapshots, compression, and low cost,
but not data de-duplication.
And just like NetApp ONTAP,
it has support for point-in-time instantaneous cloning,
which is very helpful again to test new workloads.
So all this information should be enough
for you to answer the question at the exam,
to pick the right file system for the right use case.
Okay, that's it.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.